Update specs with batching and lack of vote extensions (#393)
anoma/namada: documentation/specs/src/interoperability/ethereum-bridge/transfers_to_ethereum.md

# Transferring from Namada to Ethereum

Moving assets from Namada to Ethereum will not be automatic, as opposed the
movement of value in the opposite direction. Instead, users must send an
appropriate transaction to Namada to initiate a transfer across the bridge
to Ethereum. Once this transaction is approved, a "proof" will be created
and posted on Namada.

It is incumbent on the end user to  request an appropriate ["proof"](proofs.md) 
of the transaction. This proof must be submitted to the appropriate Ethereum smart
contract by the user to redeem Ethereum assets / mint wrapped assets. This also
means all Ethereum gas costs are the responsibility of the end user.

A relayer binary will be developed to aid users in accessing the proofs
generated by Namada validators as well as posting this proof to Ethereum. It
will also aid in batching transactions.

## Moving value to Ethereum

> To redeem wrapped Ethereum assets, a user should make a transaction to burn
> their wrapped tokens, which the `#EthBridge` validity predicate will accept.
> 
> Mints of a wrapped Namada token on Ethereum (including NAM, Namada's native token)
> will be represented by a data type like:
> ```rust
> struct MintWrappedNam {
>     /// The Namada address owning the token
>     owner: NamadaAddress,
>     /// The address on Ethereum receiving the wrapped tokens
>     receiver: EthereumAddress,
>     /// The address of the token to be wrapped 
>     token: NamadaAddress,
>     /// The number of wrapped Namada tokens to mint on Ethereum
>     amount: Amount,
> }
> ```
> 
> If a user wishes to mint a wrapped Namada token on Ethereum, they must
> submit a transaction on Namada that:
> - stores `MintWrappedNam` on chain somewhere - TBD
> - sends the correct amount of Namada token to `#EthBridgeEscrow`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To redeem wrapped Ethereum assets, a user should make a transaction to burn
their wrapped tokens, which the `#EthBridge` validity predicate will accept.
For sending NAM over the bridge, a user should send their NAM to 
`#EthBridgeEscrow`. In both cases, it's important that the user also adds a
`PendingTransfer` to the [Bridge Pool](#bridge-pool-validity-predicate).
```

I can spec this out further also but in short this will be simpler now that we will only handle NAM, and `PendingTransfer` replaces what was `MintWrappedNam`.

## Batching

Ethereum gas fees make it prohibitively expensive in many cases to submit
the proof for a single transaction over the bridge. Instead, it is typically
more economical to submit proofs of many transactions in bulk. This batching
is described in this section.

> A pool of transaction from Namada to Ethereum will be kept by Namada. Every

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A pool of transfers from Namada to Ethereum will be kept by Namada. Every
```

transaction to Ethereum that Namada validators approve will be added to this
pool. We call this the _Bridge Pool_.

The Bridge Pool should be thought of as a sort of mempool. When users who
wish to move assets to Ethereum submit their transactions, they will pay some
additional amount of NAM (of their choosing) as a way of covering the gas
costs on Ethereum. Namada validators will hold these fees in a Bridge Pool
Escrow.

When a batch of transactions from the Bridge Pool is submitted by a user to
Ethereum, Namada validators will receive notifications via their full nodes.
They will then pay out the fees for each submitted transaction to the user who
relayed these transactions (still in NAM). These will be paid out from the
Bridge Pool Escrow.

The idea is that users will only relay transactions from the Bridge Pool
that make economic sense. This prevents DoS attacks by underpaying fees as
well as obviating the need for Ethereum gas price oracles. It also means
that transfers to Ethereum are not ordered, preventing other attack vectors.

> The Bridge Pool will be organized as a Merkle tree. Every time it is updated,

Reviewer: to clarify, it's a Merkle tree of height 1 including all `TransferToEthereum`s that have ever been added to `/pending_transfers` (in the order in which they were added)?

Author: I haven't decided on the underlying tree type yet. I'm actually leaning toward binary so I can reuse existing third party code. It will also likely store the transfers in order of their hashes (so a random order). We remove transfers once we are notified by ethereum that they have been relayed or they time out.

Author: Anyway, this is an implementation detail that doesn't affect the final functionality, so it doesn't need to be included in the specs.

the root of tree must be signed by a quorum of validators. When a user
wishes to construct a batch of transactions to relay to Ethereum, they

> include the signed tree root and inclusion proofs for the subset of the pool

Reviewer: When a user submits a batch of transactions, should they only need the inclusion proofs and not the signed tree root? As the signed tree root should be being relayed/updated separately.

Author: We don't relay the root separately.

Reviewer: makes sense, so when a batch transfer is submitted to the Ethereum bridge smart contracts, the submitter also provides a signed tree root that is at least recent enough to cover the transfer they are doing (ideally it would be whatever the most recent signed tree root is)

they are relaying. This can be easily verified by the Ethereum smart contracts.

If vote extensions are available, these are used to collect the signatures
over the Merkle tree root. If they are not, these must be submitted as protocol
transactions, introducing latency to the pool. A user wishing to relay will
need to wait until a Merkle tree root is signed for a tree that

> includes all the transactions they wish to relay.

Reviewer: How often should validators sign a new Merkle root? In the absence of vote extensions, I think we should have some regular schedule like every 500 blocks (~1 hour or so) validators should submit a signature over whatever the Merkle root is in that block (assuming the Merkle root has changed since the last time).

Author: This is a hard question. Not signing can halt the bridge since no one can generated proofs of their relayed events. But we do have rate limiting, I should look into this.
